---
layout: post
title: "Final project in Database & Web Systems Reflection"
author: Johannes Mayrhofer
---

I chose this course when I came to the US because we have no class back home where we are taught website design. Making a website for my family's farm, I had some experience but I definitely wanted to learn more. This semester did exactly that, I learned quite a bit, and the Faulkner County Juvenile Report database was a crowning ending to that course.

The skills most valuable for carrying out the work we did, was definitely listening to what other people want. After our first client meeting, all of our heads were buzzing with ideas, ideas that where achievable, ideas that were nonsense, ideas that were good, but all of them were ideas worth listening to. So we had to take the ideas our client had, and then transform them into ideas a computer scientist has, ideas that could be put to code. So each of us had their own ideas, now we needed to figure out what to prioritize, and since all of us are different human beings we had to listen to each other. Listening was a big part of our groups since whenever someone had any problems, they could always ask and have someone that just listens to them, and or helps them. The skill of listening though often underappreciated is one that got us through the project and all of us improved in listening to what others want and contribute to that idea.

I had 61 hours on this project, that is because I wanted our client to get a great product. This product is going to do some great things when it's finally online, and I am proud to have been a part of it. Making people aware to a problem is a important step to making progress to a solution to it, this website is definitely going to help in that. Making a impartial report that only focuses on data, and visualizing that with the help of graphs, is a very good way of showing how things are. There are some graphs that show that there is help available and how many people use that help, so there is also that. I really connected with this project and I wanted to create the best thing possible, so I didn't stop working after 40 hours, because I identify with our clients mission.

One of the main ideas behind our clients mission is to show that whenever help has been offered, people will take it and things will improve. So when our project is finally finished and you can check between years, people will see that. I was always the impression that humans are good, no one is inherently evil and not worth saving, and the report from 2021 and 2022 show that, so i have been glad that I will be part of the 2023 report, as programmer not as part of the statistic. This reinforced my idea that there should be more help, because the data clearly supports that, and I think Leeanna and her team are doing a great job in that.

Having been raised by 2 nurses, being a voluntary firefighter and paramedic, I always like to help good causes, but I never did in such a way using my computer skills. This experience has shaped me in the way that it is definitely worthwile to contribute to something, even if its just a bit. Having seen, not only our client, but all of the other groups clients aswell, on how relieved they were that things got easier, or faster was a really rewarding experience. When we started this project, I was not really knowing that much about how do design such a project, but now after everything is over, I realized that while the project grew, so did it. I always wanted to find a open source project and contribute to it, but I always thought that I don't know enough or that I somehow will screw it up. Our project turned out really good, even though I had the same doubts about myself starting out, so now I know that I should just go out and find a project that I want to contribute to, make a branch and see what I can do. This is definitely a thing this project helped me with.

In conclusion I really just want to say that I had a great experience during the entierty of the project, I got to learn a lot, help a lot, sometimes swear but in the end it all worked out and I am glad for each and every one of my teammembers.

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

